Title: Puzzler board arrived
Date: 2012-02-11 14:46
Author: Demian
Category: Boards
Slug: puzzlerboardarrived

![My Puzzler Board](|filename|images/my_puzzler.jpeg.scaled500.jpg)

Murphy's Law held true as my board arrived Thursday when out of town and
couldn't play with it. The next day, flight delays continued to separate
me from my obsession.

An email exchange with the [Joel
Harper](http://myworld.ebay.com/harperaj) (the builder), reassured me
that he was as anxious to hear about successful shipping as I was.
Fortunately, my local Fedex and UPS delivery teams have been top notch.
Opening the packaging, I found my board nicely wrapped in bubble wrap
and protected by styrofoam.

Initially I was surprised that the posts weren't installed for shipping,
but quickly recognized the wisdom of that choice. Joel did an excellent
job "tapping" the post holes so that the rubber-tubing covered brass
bolts could be easily hand threaded and tighten.

The board itself was made from a nicely finished baltic birch plywood
surface, a 8-piece solid walnut stained oak side rail and a ring of mdf
for the ditch. I didn't realize from the photos that the grooves and
lines were routed out and nicely done and finished.

I found most of the discs clearly convex-concave and a quick spin on the
surface was enough to identify which side would slide faster. Friday
night, I got in several games with my 8-year son, who picked up the
rules quickly.

Saturday, we got in some 4 player games with my wife, daughter, and son.
The game is as much fun with 4 as with 2. The pace of play can be
surprisingly quick, finishing a round of play in only a couple of
minutes.
