Title: Adult Singles - WCC 2013
Date: 2013-06-15 12:30
Author: Demian
Category: Competition
Tags: WCC
Slug: 2013-wcc-singles

![WCC\_2013\_Logo](|filename|images/WCC_logo\(15th\).png)

The World Crokinole Championships are an all day event. Doubles
categories starts by 8:30am. Singles categories are held in the
afternoon and evening.

As Kieran headed over to compete in the juniors (6-10) category, I got
in line to draw my number for the competitive singles category: **the
main event**.

I got one of the toughest (best) draws there could be: 
  
1. Fred Slater 
2. Louis Gauthier 
3. Jon Conrad 
4. Daryl MacDonald 
5. Bren Mallette 
6. Ray Bierling 
7. Jason Bierling 
8. Peter Tarle 
9. Kirk Cornelius 
10. Cole Fess

As registered players enter the roped off competition area, they draw a
slip of paper from a box. The number on the paper corresponds to a table
where you meet your opponent. I walk to my assigned table only to meet
Tom Johnston (no relation). We had met only 10 minutes earlier, checking
out the score sheets. We chat a bit and begin warming up, gaining a feel
for the board. A few no-shows are leaving empty spaces and as a result
the "high numbered" tables are split up to fill in the gaps. Tom and I
shake hands and head our separate ways. Too bad I think, he's definitely
an a-level player.

I head towards where the referee is directing me and find myself sitting
opposite Fred Slater, he had just won the doubles competition with his
son, Justin, and besides being a competitive player, he is the "keeper
of the rules" for the game. I'm pretty excited. He comments during our
warm up that he can tell I've been practicing my twenties. We begin our
play and I end up winning our game 6-2. I was on top of the world, I'm
sure he couldn't have been pleased.

Next up I meet Louis Gauthier. While I didn't know of him heading north,
I was quickly educated as he walloped me 8-0. Since then, I've noticed
him highly ranked in many tournaments and also \#6 in the 2012 NCA tour.
At least I scored 4 20's.

Of course, by this point, I have gained an understanding of how we moved
between tables and I find myself across from 2012 WCC and NCA Tour
Champion, Jon Conrad. I'm totally psyched, this is while I came to
Tavistock: to sit across from the best. Honestly, I was quite nervous,
and it affected my play. Despite that I was amazed by how good Jon's
"leaves" were. I couldn't do much useful with them. Of course, he was a
nice guy, but he killed me 8-0. He went on to win the 2013 WCC.

Next up, another strong, but less famous (famish?) player, Daryl
MacDonald against whom I lost 7-1, but at leave I was on the board.
Then, I tied a man named Bren Mallette, who is a repeat WCC player with
a bunch of poker buddies from Toronto. Apparently the worse they are at
poker, the better they are at crokinole (where the poker losers go when
they are done). Bren and I tied 4-4.

My exccellent draw was again highlighted as I sat across from Ray
Bierling, a top notch player with multiple tournament wins and a
dominating record with his brother, Jason in doubles competitions. We
chit chat about the subtle differences between each of the boards which
are visibly different only cosmetically. He did comment that shallower
center holes are more likely to generate leaners (a button in the twenty
hole, but not laying flat) which only score 15. Play starts and I lead
off. I sink a 20 to which he answers with one of his own. Feeling good,
I take my turn again with a 2nd twenty, and he does the same. 4 20's in
a roll?! **Now we're playing Crokinole**. 6 more 20s are made. **I just
went on a 5 each 20 race with Ray Bierling! OMG!** Of course, once you
start thinking that a perfect game is possible, the inevitable happens.
I hit my next shot ridiculously short (I didn't even make it into the
10-point circle). Ray ends up beating me 8-0 with 17 twenties (he went
on to win the 20s competition during a shoot-out with Justin Slater),
I'm glad to have helped.... I did make 7 of my own during that game.

Next up, Jason Bierling: **I'm in heaven, I had hoped to play 1 or 2 top
tier players, and here's my 4th guy I know just from studying the game,
and really the 6th out of 7 players that are ranked tournament
players.** A much slower board, but he also beats me 8-0. Jason was the
first to comment beyond the occassional "nice shot" when he pointed out
I was letting him play outside the center by continuing to leave my own
button on the board. When you are out of position, you have no hope of
winning a round unless you are playing to the center.

For my 8th game, I was matched up with Peter Tarle, who I had met during
the recreational doubles match. He's another of those less well known
but solid club and tournament players who beat me 7-1.

For my 9th and 10th games, I met 2 more of Bren's crew: Kirk Cornelius
and Cole Fess. After being decimated by 7 a-level players, I finally
stepped up won both game 8-0.

By the end of the preliminary round, I didn't have enough points to move
on, but I felt I played well enough to have no regrets. I was ranked
69th out of 91 entrants and sat across from the best players in the
world. Maybe next year I'll win a few more rounds.
