Title: Builders

Crokinole boards are frequently handmade by their owners, and are passed down
as family heirlooms.   Several craftsman have made names for themselves
selling handmade crokinole boards to enthusiasts all over the world.

These 4 builders are particularly well regarded and popular in the crokinole
communinity

  

![Willard_pro](http://getfile6.posterous.com/getfile/files.posterous.com/temp-
2012-02-17/BIGcfnHwzyzsAyaJabeavoHoEoBnFhcrxekwCGmCcDFiuoepveyBHxCDEgbq/willar
d_pro.jpg.scaled595.jpg)

[](http://www.crokinolegame.ca/crokinole_boards.htm)

Martin Willard
([crokinolegame.ca](http://www.crokinolegame.ca/crokinole_boards.htm)) builds
the boards currently used at the [World Crokinole
Championship](http://worldcrokinole.com/) as well as many NCA sanctioned
tournaments.   The "Willard" PRO is the de facto tournament standard.

![Mrcrokinole_eagle](http://getfile9.posterous.com/getfile/files.posterous.com
/temp-2012-02-17/IaanmeetjAkeecEGEgJGJyHcrzhouImCtIeArlrHDvvdFDbajeBoeAwFeqbf/
mrcrokinole_eagle.jpg.scaled595.jpg)

Wayne Kelly aka "[Mr. Crokinole](http://www.crokinole.com/boards.asp)"
literally wrote the [book](http://www.crokinole.com/book.asp) on Crokinole and
its history.  Mr. Crokinole's "Eagle" board has been the board of choice for
elite players, and was originally designed for the[ World Crokinole
Championship](http://worldcrokinole.com/).

![Muzzies_fundy](http://getfile1.posterous.com/getfile/files.posterous.com/tem
p-2012-02-17/AsnbasqcoodfwFAauojlmtgJalJCsFcfsapjECawulItesIElFrsJqGyxqkA/muzz
ies_fundy.jpg.scaled595.jpg)

Murray and Sue Skaling ([muzzies.ca](http://muzzies.ca)) build high quality
and highly regarded boards in Forest Glade, NS.  The Skaling's produce both
tournament sized and smaller size boards.

[![Carnivale](http://getfile4.posterous.com/getfile/files.posterous.com/temp-2
012-02-17/fjxtxIEdDpjkkqCiJijzgDuEtfonvplCiAwdtwHJyeAFIqjJJkugrzaFHmmv/Carniva
le.jpg.scaled595.jpg)](http://getfile3.posterous.com/getfile/files.posterous.c
om/temp-2012-02-17/fjxtxIEdDpjkkqCiJijzgDuEtfonvplCiAwdtwHJyeAFIqjJJkugrzaFHmm
v/Carnivale.jpg.scaled1000.jpg)

 Stan and Carl Hilinski's ([crokinoleworld.com](http://crokinoleworld.com))
boards are treasured by their owners as artwork.  Stan and Carl describe their
clever [building
instructions](http://www.hilinski.net/woodgames/howto/howto.html) for do-it-
yourself'ers.  Stan and Carl frequently work with artist Penny Hauffe to
create beautiful custom painted boards.

Lesser known builders


![Puzzler](http://getfile3.posterous.com/getfile/files.posterous.com/temp-2012
-02-17/dtCoenqfcADoFjsdpHiDCcqqbdBckIdkpJrqvwtgajpveJJaflvrxbqeDyaw/puzzler.jp
g.scaled595.jpg)

 Puzzler
([ebay](http://www.ebay.com/sch/harperaj/m.html?_nkw=&_armrs=1&_from=&_ipg=)):
Joel Harper distinguishes these custom boards with a unique puzzle-jointed
solid wood side rail.  A variety of colors, finishes and posts are available.

![Paperemail](http://getfile0.posterous.com/getfile/files.posterous.com/temp-2
012-02-17/DDrdpwylCFhEIApAsHkfvArnglzFlqGjtagmqlErEFDhtdltyaiHpFcFBvxA/paperem
ail.jpg.scaled595.jpg)

 Paperemail ([Etsy](http://www.etsy.com/shop/Paperemail?section_id=6636108)):
Michael Theiss makes some colorful and handsomely painted boards.

![Thecrokinoleshop](http://getfile3.posterous.com/getfile/files.posterous.com/
temp-2012-02-17/xpHEierHECDeCkkGHgxeHDygIwpjrHcuvtzdsscjGjaqxJgHIqzawchstHtD/t
hecrokinoleshop.jpg.scaled595.jpg)

 [The Crokinole
Shop](http://thecrokinoleshop.com/Crokinole_Board_Ordering_Information.html):
Handmade 24" boards

![Owlshollow](http://getfile0.posterous.com/getfile/files.posterous.com/temp-2
012-02-17/zfDxmHEAcfqjhBgfnsJDHAyocenhmtduxfiqAHEoezbBFchbJvzlnlgDhGFy/owlshol
low.jpg.scaled595.jpg)

 Owl's Hollow ([owlshollow.com](http://www.owlshollow.com/shop/by_category.cfm
?category=74)): Sells round and octagonal boards.

![Kevinscabins](http://getfile1.posterous.com/getfile/files.posterous.com/temp
-2012-02-17/FdyeuFgBucmjhgFFwyBzBGAzwFJytlGbsIJsHfBxdAvdDdpvsqBmFBkAigmC/kevin
scabins.jpg.scaled595.jpg)

 Kevin's Cabins
([Etsy](http://www.etsy.com/shop/kevinscabins?section_id=7668171))

![Artisanwoodworking](http://getfile3.posterous.com/getfile/files.posterous.co
m/temp-2012-02-17/fhqtbxstJJbpkAEgFBGoBoGrjddfgzCIrDymyJDFqhBpzopzCurrsbkwexGw
/artisanwoodworking.jpg.scaled595.jpg)

 Artisan Woodworking
([Etsy](http://www.etsy.com/shop/artisanwoodcrafting?section_id=6800221))

![](/themes/back_to_school/scotch1.png)
![](/themes/back_to_school/scotch2.png)
![](/themes/back_to_school/scotch3.png) ![](/themes/back_to_school/grid-
top.png) ![](/themes/back_to_school/grid-right.png) ![](/themes/back_to_school
/grid-bottom.png)

![Quantcast](https://pixel.quantserve.com/pixel/p-16ewveTurfCCM.gif)

