Title: Debates

**Board Shape:**

    *Round: Round Boards are preferred for the consistent feel and distance
from rail to shooting line.  The downside of round rails is the difficult in
manufacturing

    Square & Octagonal:  Square and Octagonal boards are consider easier to
build, especially with straight rails.

**Wax, powder and lubrication:**

    Crokinole boards are heavily laquered and typically finished with a rubbed
polyurethane.  Several player's wax their boards and discs with carnuba or
similar products.

    Historically, a carrom or shuffleboard powder was also used during
tournament play to try and normalized board speed on a wide variety of player
supplied boards.   With the standardization of high quality fast boards, many
purists would like to see the use of powder reduced or eliminated.   It is not
uncommon to see a bit of powder in a ditch and high level players rubbing
discs in it between shots.


**Standardized Boards and Disks:**

    The 26" in round board has become the standard for most NCA sanctioned
tournaments.

    Discs have not yet seen the same level of standardization, although it
appears to be coming.  The preferred disc is slightly convex on 1 side and
concave of the other.  While seasoned players may be able to feel the
difference, newer players can tell by spinning a disc on a flat surface: the
concave side down will spin longer.


**Rules:**

    No Hiding/Promotion: A player must advance at least 1 disc to the
15-circle when the opponent has no discs on the board.  Previously, some rules
allowed a player to leave a disc behind their posts making the opponents
obligation to strike it very difficult.

    Damage: Discs moved by a disc that previous was knocked out of play.
Modern rules dictate that damage stays.  Previously some clubs attempted to
restore the board to the previously state.

    Spinning Disc: A disc that touches or crosses the shooting line, but does
not strike the ditch, rail or out-of-play discs and returns under its own
momentum within the shooting line will be considered still in play.

