Title: Legends 

![Jas4](|filename|../images/jas4.jpg.scaled595.jpg)


**The Eagan-Fitzgerald's:**

The following text, documenting "Eagan-Fitzgerald Cabal", appears repeatedly
across the internet, little corroborating evidence has been found to back up
the interesting story:

_The earliest known crokinole board to date was built by Eckhardt Wettlaufer
of Sebastopol, Ontario, Canada as a fifth birthday gift for his son, Adam, who
was born on December 31, 1871. The board now resides at The Joseph Schneider
Haus Museum in Kitchener, Ontario, Canada as part of their Harvest Collection.
Several other home-made boards of south western Ontario origin, and dating
from the 1870s, have been discovered since the 1990s. It seems to have been
patented on April 20, 1880, in New York City by Joshua K. Ingalls. _

_Crokinole is often believed to be of Mennonite or Amish origins, but there is
no factual data to support such a claim. The reason for this misconception may
be due to its popularity in Mennonite and Amish groups. The game was viewed as
a rather innocuous pastime - unlike the perception that diversions such as
card playing or dancing were considered "works of the Devil" as held by many
19th-century Protestant groups. The oldest roots of crokinole, from the 1860s,
suggest the British and South Asian games are the most likely antecedents of
what became crokinole._

_In 1899, Crokinole was revolutionized by what is still known today as the
"Eagan Opening". Thomas Eagan developed a complicated, 3-turn hybrid opening
sequence in Tottenham, Ontario that confused, and ultimately defeated, the
Perth County players. The Eagan Opening has never been published, but appears
to have been passed down generation by generation to Thomas Eagan's
descendants by word of mouth. What is known is that, on the initial shot, the
"20" is missed on purpose, with the disc being left on the edge of the
20-hole. Then, depending on the opponent's response, the second or third shot
is left behind the player's front-left peg that requires absolute precision
for the opponent to remove. Even if the opponent was capable of "breaking
through" the Eagan Opening, which the Eagan family themselves were experts at,
it often caused such mental exhaustion that it resulted in defeat over the
course of the game._

_In the late 1940s, a crokinole playing family from North-eastern Newfoundland
named the Fitzgeralds visited Tottenham on a cross-country tour. They
introduced the Eagan family to the "Coachman's Screen", which purposely lulls
the play into the 5-point area on the opponent's cross-side. The Eagan and
Fitzgerald families soon learned that the Eagan Opening and Coachman's Screen,
when used together, made them virtually unbeatable. Within the local church,
after the Catholic mass on Sunday morning, they taught each other the angles
and the succession matrix of each technique._

_..._

_Accomplished fiddler and step dancer, Julie Fitzgerald, was allegedly the
first family member to confirm the infamous “Eagan-Fitzgerald Cabal“, a term
coined by famous crokinole player and analyst Eric Miltenburg of Toronto. In
the World Crokinole Championship’s very backyard in Tavistock, in early July
2010, Fitzgerald explained in great detail to Bill Gladding of the Tavistock
Gazette the importance of her family’s contribution to crokinole’s history.
Fitzgerald stated that many of Thomas Eagan’s descendents still play dominant
crokinole, but are now scattered across the continent, with some in the
Greater Toronto Area, the Ottawa Valley, remote areas of Northern Ontario,
British Columbia, and San Francisco. The family do not participate in the
World Crokinole Championships, because they consider the level of competition
inferior to their own and concentrate on developing their family’s skills.
Fitzgerald boasted about the family’s political connections and stated they
are developing crokinole software with an unnamed technology company in
Sunnyvale, California. Unfortunately, the story was never published in the
Tavistock Gazette. Bill Gladding and Julie Fitzgerald have since denied any
conversation taking place. However, Julie’s sister Kerry and brother Tom have
confirmed they were in Tavistock with Julie and that she spoke to Gladding on
two separate occasions on July 2 and 3, 2010._


**The "One Cheek" rule:**

_During the height of Crokinole's popularity in the late 19th and early 20th
centuries, it has been told that several marriages were being threatened by
the ruckus and damage to floors by enthusiastic crokinole players moving and
adjusting their chairs during a competitive game.   Reportedly, house rules
quickly spread that prohibited the movement of chairs during a game and that
at least "one cheek" must remain on one's chair for a valid shot._

